This is one of multiple videos that help you troubleshoot CCN scenarios in preparation for the shishya
exam.
We're going to look at how to troubleshoot multiple issues with TELLEMENT in this network.
So let's get started on Reddit one telnet to the Lupica brought it to you.
We told that Ponsford is required but none is sent.
So we're able to telnet to the road.
But then it's immediately disconnecting us some router to show run pipes begin to V-twin on the y line.
We've got a command called a log in log in means that the Etiwanda line requires a password.
Notice we told that postes what is required but none is set.
So pulse needs to be configured on the Etiwanda lines
so password.
Cisco.
Let's try again telnet from a one to two.
We now get a postes would prompt.
And if you put the password in correctly we can log in second problem when we try to go to enable mode.
We told that not possible to set so show run.
What you'll notice in the output is that there is no enabled password
so show run include enable no output.
What about secret no secret password configured so enable and we could set a secret or an enabled password.
Let's set secrets because that's better.
So we'll just call the Cisco when we type and able now we prompted for a password and we can log to
the Rodda So let's test that again.
Back on Route 1.
Tell that to rodded too can log in and we can go to enable mode.
So we've solved the problem on router too.
What about router 3.
Telnet to the loopback of rotisserie we told that the connection is refused by the remotest.
Can we ping that loop back.
Yes we can.
So this is not an IP connectivity problem.
This is something else.
On router 3 show run pipe begin Vicci wine.
Now these pump commands may not work in the exam so just type show run and then scroll down to the end
of the config to see the Viti white configuration.
So you might have to do a show run and press baseball all the way down until you see the video why Conficker.
Can you see the problem notice here.
Transport input S-sh we are using telnet but the lines have been restricted to only using S-sh which
is better in the real world.
But here we want to be able to telnet so we could specify all which would allow all protocols.
But from a security point of view we may want to enable only S-sh and Tonette.
So show run pipe began Viti Why so both Telenet and S-sh are allowed on the Viti one line.
Once again let's see if we can telnet we are able to log interactive 3.
So we solved the problem on rotatory.
Now what about Route 1.
Can we told that to rot a one size connection is refused can be paying out of one.
Yes we can.
So we need to get back to Route 1.
Let's have a look at the configuration I'm going to scroll through the config.
See if you can find the problem.
So there's the IP address on the loopback.
Can you see a problem notice this access.
Close one in an access list is being applied to the BT one lines and scrolling up through the config
it's only permitting the loopback of Rhoda to when you telnet it using the outgoing interface as the
source of the Talmud connection.
Now we could specify source interfaces and try and use the loopback as the source but for CCMA that's
not required.
What we want to do on CCMA is either remove this access list or edit to the access list to permit specific
devices in the topology.
So for this blog all I'll do is remove the access KLOS so show run pipe begin to you why the access
clause has been removed.
Tone it back.
Still not working.
What's the problem.
Notice Sheir transport input.
None so line Vitti Wazira for transport input Tonette and perhaps S-sh.
Now we've got the same problem we had previously pulser required but none sent.
So when I type log in we have to specify a password and then we want to specify and enabled password
or secret password.
So now we can log in.
So we've sold to multiple problems in this typology.
Make sure that you understand what's required on a Viti y line.
As an example on this router I'll now change it to say log in a local rather than just a log in.
Notice the problem now telnet to Rodda to notice I made another mistake.
I was actually working on Rotto one so you need to be careful which is you working on.
So let's get out of here.
That's rather one exit out of here.
I'm back wrote it to No.
So Tonette back to write a one.
It's asking for a username so I'll trust Cisco to also have Cisco.
That's not going to work because I don't have a username configured.
So just to reiterate
on a one we used the command log in local So this password has no effect.
We have to specify a local user name just to prove the point.
I'll say no password Cisco and go back to the Viti when so there's no password on the Etiwanda line.
I'm back on router to telnet back to Route 1.
Notice it's asking for a username password on the Viti while line is irrelevant when you use log and
local so comfy username David password Cisco log in now as David and I can log in.
The reason I can go to privilege mode because we have an enable password configured on the router notice
enabled password Cisco.
We could change that by saying username David privilege and specify 15 to give David full privileges
to the Rodda.
Notice the difference now.
When I telnet to the router and log in I'm taken immediately to privilege mode and that's because
we specified the privilege of the user as 15.
This is bad practice.
You should use a secret so there are some troubleshooting tips on how to troubleshoot telnet.
Thank you for watching.
Don't forget to comment on the video.
Ask questions please like the video if you enjoyed it and please subscribe.
I wish you all the very best.